Let's save and let's see if those render.
All right good.
So now we have our categories and you can see that now we have the panel around it as well.
All right.
Let's also bring over recent posts
.
Change that to three.
And also let's bring over recent comments
.
All right so let's take a look and there they are.
Now we have an issue because I want these to show up as list groups which are formatted better than
this.
They take away the bullet add some padding add some borders.
So what we need to do is kind of create our own version of these widgets inside of our theme folder
.
OK so what we'll do is inside the theme folder we'll create another folder called widgets
and I'm actually going to go to my folder from within my file manager.
All right.
And then what I'm going to want to do is if we go to W.P. admin.
Actually no the rupee includes and then widgets.
You'll see all of the core widget files here.
All right.
So we want to grab the categories.
The recent comments and the recent posts we're going to copy.
Make sure you don't cut.
Make sure you copy them and we're going to bring them over to our theme folder
and then widgets.
OK we'll paste those in.
And let's start with the categories 1.
So it's open that up through sublime.
All right.
And what we first thing we want to do is the class name we need to change that.
So what I'll do is put out an underscore and then custom.
OK.
And then what I want to change is the class names for the UL and the allies.
OK I just want to add the bootstrap classes.
So we want to go to right here where we have the UL and we're going to add class
list group.
Now we also want the list items to have the class of list group item.
But the way that this is set up we can access the list item tags from within here.
So we need to do a little bit of customization in the functions p p files.
So let's open that up and what we're going to do is we're going to go underneath when we go to the very
bottom and we're going to create Actually let's add a comment here first I'll say adds
the list group.
Item
two categories.
Just so we know what it does.
So function
call it add new class list
categories.
And then we pass in a variable
and say a list is going to equal string replace
or say cat item K that's the original class name we want to change that.
Now we still want to have the cat item class because it needs that but we also want to add on the list
group item class.
All right.
And then we just need to return a list.
OK so we want to do instead of adding an action here.
We want to add filter.
OK.
Basically the action is used when you want to add something a filter is when you want to change something
.
Right.
So when I say add filter W.P. underscore a list of categories and then we just want the name of our
function.
OK.
So we're not out of the woods yet with these widgets.
We have to we have to register them.
So before we do that we need to include them up here all require.
So we're going to say require Once
it's going to be the widgets folder that's in our theme folder and then we just need to include each
one so class W.P.
widgets where we get categories dot ph P.
OK we might as well include all of them.
OK so we at the recent posts
and we have recent comments
.
OK now we need to register just down the bottom here.
It's a function
words strapped to register widgets
.
And what we want here is the class names so W.P. underscore just
recent posts and custom
.
This one will be recent comments
and then we'll do our categories
.
Right now we need another add action.
And this is going to be again on widgets in it
and then we just need the name of the function
.
All right so let's save that in and go and reload cannot declare class recent posts.
Oh did I not add that.
Oh I didn't I didn't change this.
So these should have customers well
OK.
So we have all of our widgets registered in categories.
Now has the list item class so that looks good.
We also want to add these classes to these two as well so that instead of the bullet points we have
it looking like this.
So let's go to our recent posts with you and we want to go down.
We want to find the UL tag that we need to change which is right here.
OK so we're just going to add a class of list group and then the ally will have a class of list group
item
case load that looks good.
Now let's go to the recent comments
.
And where is it
right here so we're going to add a class
of list group and then the ally will have a class
of group item save reload and there we go.
So now we have some custom widgets OK and obviously you can do whatever you like you could make these
look totally different if you wanted to and it would only affect these widgets when your theme is loaded
.
Casey you're not editing any core WordPress code.
That would be bad.
OK.
Don't want to do that.
So we have our NAV bar set up as well as our Sidebar widgets.
So we're almost there in the next video.
I want to work on the search.
We'll put a search box and also the single pages because right now if we click on a post it brings us
to the right post but we want it to look different than this.
OK we want the image to be bigger and so forth.
OK so I will see you in the next video.